Java Developer, Web Applications 
Catalist, LLC - Washington, DC
Catalist is committed to using our talents and technology to nurture a vibrant, growing, progressive community, and to working with that community towards a more just, equitable and tolerant America. Our mission is to provide progressive organizations with the data and services needed to better identify, understand, and communicate with the people they need to persuade and mobilize.

Our team of innovators brings a unique mix of talents to our effort: we have helped local and national progressive organizations and campaigns advance their missions; and members of our team have experience designing and building data systems that support some of the world’s most recognized commercial and scientific enterprises.

We are currently looking for talented and energetic software developers who would like to work on an exciting new set of products to help progressive organizations run more effective voter contact programs. This position will offer a unique opportunity to help build out an enterprise class data processing and analytics infrastructure for scale.

As a software developer at Catalist, you will have a leading role in efforts to discover actionable insights using the largest repository of individual-level data in progressive politics. Our work is on the cutting edge of data-driven politics, and your findings will help Democratic candidates and progressive organizations conduct successful advocacy and electoral campaigns.

Duties and Responsibilities include:

Working closely with engineering, political program and data science staff to understand functional software requirements
Contributing to an adaptable, yet organized and structured process for quickly translating functional software requirements into working technology
Estimating, designing, developing and verifying software solutions to meet immediate technical goals in context of larger priorities
Supporting and maintaining the software solutions built by the development team
Developing and maintaining product documentation
Providing technical feedback on specific product features and designs
Must be able to adjust working schedule (occasional evenings and weekends) as workload demands
Required skills and abilities:

Strong structured thinking, technical analysis and problem-solving skills
Demonstrated understanding of user-centric design principles
Demonstrated desire and skill with the art and science of user interfaces and ability to internalize user experience
Fluency with Java in multiple web application frameworks
Fluency with Web languages and technologies: CSS, HTML. HTTP
Fluency with JavaScript in two or more web application libraries: jQuery, Angular, React, etc.
Demonstrated experience with d3 is highly desirable
Basic understanding of statistics
Experience in designing performant solutions and refactoring for robustness and optimization
Comfort with basic design paradigms for parallel and distributed computation
Additional experience with Functional and OO languages is desirable (Scala, Python are a plus)
Conversant working knowledge of SQL
Working understanding of TCP/IP networking
Demonstrated understanding of software design patterns – IOC, MVC, etc. is required
Development experience with Hadoop stack, Spark and Cassandra is a plus
Must be able to work within a team and complete unsupervised tasks
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment is critical
Strong oral and written communication skills
Previous experience in an Agile work environment is a plus
Interest in progressive politics is a plus
Education and Experience:

Must have at least 3 years experience with Java/Scala and associated development tools
Experience with web application development required
Experience with at least one RDBMS - PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, etc. required
Experience with columnar databases a plus (Vertica, Greenplum, RedShift, etc)
Experience with deployment and enterprise use of Redhat / CentOS Linux platforms a plus
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, equivalent degree or equivalent experience
Send your resume, including references, job and academic experience. Our offices are located in a building with a gym, parking garage and bike racks (no small feat downtown…) near McPherson Square in downtown DC, for easy Metro access and convenient proximity to food trucks. Office culture, core hours, leave policy, etc. – pretty much what you’d expect from a progressive organization running a 24x7-usable suite of online apps and data services.

﻿No recruiters or agencies. Direct hire only.

Required education:

Bachelor's
Required experience:

Java or Scala: 3 years
